Title:     BookKeeper Documentation
Notice:    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
           or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
           distributed with this work for additional information
           regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
           to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
           "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
           with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
           .
             http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
           .
           Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
           software distributed under the License is distributed on an
           "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
           KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
           specific language governing permissions and limitations
           under the License.

How to start with BookKeeper depends on who you are...

*Developers* who are new to BookKeeper should start with the "BookKeeper Tutorial":./bookkeeperTutorial.html. The tutorial shows you how to build a basic distributed system using BookKeeper. "Turning ledgers into logs":./bookkeeperLedgers2Logs.html gives a briefer description of the principles behind the logs used in the tutorial.

Once familiar with the basic concepts, developers can consult the "BookKeeper Java API documentation":./apidocs.

*Administrators* will be more interested in the "BookKeeper Admin guide":./bookkeeperConfig.html. It describes the steps involved in setting up and maintaining a cluster. The available configuration parameters can be found "here":./bookieConfigParams.html. An important aspect of BookKeeper is how it deals with the failure of storage nodes. This is covered in "Bookie Recovery":./bookieRecovery.html.

*Contributor* documentation is less organized, "BookKeeper Internals":./bookkeeperInternals.html is a good place to start. From there you can check out our "wiki":https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/BOOKKEEPER/Index and ask questions on our "mailing lists":/lists.html or "IRC":/irc.html.

h3. All documents

* Overview
** "Getting started":./bookkeeperStarted.html
** "Overview":./bookkeeperOverview.html

* Developers
** "BookKeeper Tutorial":./bookkeeperTutorial.html
** "Turning ledgers into logs":./bookkeeperLedgers2Logs.html
** "BookKeeper Java API documentation":./apidocs
** "Programmer's Guide (old)":./bookkeeperProgrammer.html
** "BookKeeper Configuration Parameters (old)":./bookkeeperConfigParams.html


* Administrators
** "Admin Guide":./bookkeeperConfig.html
** "BookKeeper JMX":./bookkeeperJMX.html
** "Bookie Server Configuration Parameters (old)":./bookieConfigParams.html
** "Bookie Recovery":./bookieRecovery.html

* Contributors
** "BookKeeper Internals":./bookkeeperInternals.html
** "BookKeeper Metadata Management":./bookkeeperMetadata.html
** "Metastore Interface":./metastore.textile
